Hi, everyone, in this letter, we are going to find out whether a card is clicked.
All right, so first off, let's go ahead and let's create our very first variable and then this variable,
we are going to grab all of our memory cards, right?
So I'm just going to call him cards and we are going to say document.
What better method than query selector or because we have two cards, right.
So we are going to say memory dash card.
All right.
So after this, what I want to do is I want to provide some initial values and I want to create some
initial variables.
And we are going to change and or toggle the values for these variables throughout this project.
All right.
So first stuff I want first of all, I want to create a variable that is going to say card is.
Flipped and noticed that amusing let not cons, because down later down the project, we are going to
change the value of this.
And whenever we do CONSED, we are not going to be able to do that.
That's why we are going to use let.
And initially I'm going to set it to false because whenever the user starts the game, no card is flipped
because the user has not clicked on any car.
And when the user clicks on any card then we want to, we want to grab this card is flipped and we want
to set it to true.
OK, as opposed to false.
Initially it is false, but when the user clicks, then it is going to be true.
And we are going to initialize initialise not defined.
We are going to initialize to more variables.
The first one is first card and the second one is second car.
And I'm not going to give them any values.
And this is very valid in JavaScript because we are just going to initialize them and the values they
are going to come later.
Right.
So now the first thing that I want to do is I want to be able to loop over all of the cards.
So I'm going to create I'm going to grab our cards and we are going to do our foreach.
And in here we are going to run a function.
Now, the foreach loop loops over all of the cards, right from card number one on the way to car number
12.
And the loop variable, which is also the function parameter, is going to be card.
Right.
And we want the card to have an event listener and we listening for a click because when the user clicks,
then we want to flip that card.
Right.
So this is I think.
What is this?
That was Miskelly, I think I talked about this and the drawing up, if I'm not mistaken, and a couple
of chapters back, that whenever we go ahead and we apply the lessons, we usually in real world scenarios,
what we do is we call the function here or we write the name of the function and we create the function
separately.
If the function has very few lines of code, you could do it here by professional.
You should separate.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to come on top and I'm going to create the function.
Flipkart, all right, so now this is our function of Flipkart.
All right, I'm not going to pass in any parameter in here.
The first thing that I want to do is I want to show you something, even though officially we have not
started talking about this key word because this key word classifies as advanced JavaScript.
We have not reached our advanced chapters.
Whenever we are done with these beginner to intermediate level projects, then we will go ahead and
start the advanced JavaScript chapters and advanced JavaScript projects.
But the this keyword is very crucial to implementing this memory game, so I'm just going to give you
an idea of how it works.
So in the context of this flip card that this key were first and any element inside the game that has
been clicked.
So it is going to give us that.
So let's go ahead and let's cancel the log, that element or the this keyword to see what this keyword
is going to give us.
So this is our final project, right.
And this is the project that we're working on.
Not as nothing works.
It's not functional yet.
So let's save it, and whenever I click on this card, we are going to see that, we are going to see
that the this keyword gives us exactly that card.
That's why the this keyword is very, very crucial.
So if I click on this card and if I hover over it, it's says Curious Cat.
And it means that this image, this this is exactly what I clicked on.
So click on this one is exactly that one and this one so that this keyword allows us to track where
the user has clicked.
Right.
So I'm just going to go ahead and remove that.
And whenever the user clicks on any card, which is the value of the this keyword, I want to add a
class to it.
So I'm going to say class list, dot toggle.
Now, the toggle method is going to add that class.
If that class is not present, if the class is present, it is going to remove that class.
So we don't have to add and remove it manually through two methods.
We could just use toggle and the toggle is going to take care of it for us and the class is going to
be flip.
I think we have specified the class of Flip.
This is the flipped class and it does transform, rotate 180 degrees.
And it gives us a perspective.
So now these images, they flip.
But they do not go back.
All right, so there is still a lot of functionality missing.
So now we have been able to successfully flip the cards.
Now we should make sure that now it is the stage where we want to know whether it is the first click
by a user, for example.
Let's just go ahead and close this and come here.
So this is our final product.
Now, there is a lot of logic behind this seems very simple on the surface, but behind all this, there
is a very strong logic that I want to explain thoroughly.
So whenever we refresh the page, it means that this game starts fresh.
Right.
And we want to make sure to find out whether or not this this this is the first click by a user or the
second clue.
So whenever I click on this image and when we see this cat, it means this is our first click.
And when I click on this image of this dog, it means this is the second click notice when I click on
another card.
We are not allowed to do it because whenever two cards are flipped, the third card is locked.
We are going to get to that functionality later in this chapter.
But for now, we want to know whether the claque by the user is the second the first click on a first
card or the second click on a second card.
We want to find that out.
So for that, because this is programmed logic, we are going to use if statements.
So initially the card is flipped is false.
OK.
And when we say when the card is left, let's go ahead and write it and I'm going to explain it.
So when the card is flipped, it has a value of force.
And when you add in not operator to force, it means that it is a negative and this is a negative.
All right.
So negative times negative, it means it is going to be positive or true.
So this condition is going to evaluate to true when the card is flipped is is false and it has a value
of false, false, false, false.
We are going to get a true when it is true, it means it means that this is the first click on the first
card.
So we are going to grab our card is flipped and we are going to set it to true.
Again this is in not operator.
It negates everything that's in front of it.
The in front of it is false and when it negates a false statement we are going to get a true.
All right.
And the first card is going to be equal to where this keyboard, because the this keyword is the card
that the user has to collect.
We know that.
And now we want to call that first click our first card.
Very simple.
All right.
I'm going to create the the statement as well.
And we are going to wrap up this letter and we are going to pick it up where we left off in the next
lecture.
So when the user collects this statement evaluates to true.
That's why we said the card is flipped through and the first card is that this keyword or is devalued
or is the card that the user has clicked.
And in any other scenario, we want to say that the card is flipped is false.
It means that when the first card when the first card is flipped, then after that when it is flipped,
we want to do this.
But when it is not flipflopped, we want to go back to its original state when the card is not flipped.
And this time the second card is going to have the value of the this keyword because at first for the
first card, for the first card, when the value of the this keyword was assigned to the first card,
the card was flipped right through.
And when it is false, we want to add that this keyword to the second card.
All right.
That's it for this video.
See you guys in the next one.